## Overview

Trem (noun)

1. (*Brazil*) train
2. (*Minas Gerais, slang*): a thing, anything (except a train)

Trem is a note taking application. Related notes can be added to an existing
note, forming a thread, representing a chain or 'train' of thought. You could
think of it as being similar to a social media comment section, only you are
talking to yourself.

Trem is currently under development, and will soon be available as a local
application.

## Motivation

By **organising notes into threads**, you maintain the natural flow of your
thoughts, making it easier to trace the evolution of ideas over time. This
threaded approach encourages deeper exploration of topics, as related thoughts
can be seamlessly connected, much like a personal conversation.

Additionally, the atomic nature of the notes ensures that each idea stands on
its own, while still allowing for the flexibility to group them contextually
within a thread. The inclusion of tagging adds another layer of organisation,
enabling you to cross-reference ideas across different threads.

With planned features like thread linking, Trem aims to offer a robust framework
for managing complex networks of ideas, reminiscent of the zettelkasten method,
but with a more dynamic and intuitive interface. This structure not only
enhances your ability to capture fleeting thoughts but also provides the tools
to build comprehensive knowledge networks over time.

Using Trem fosters **incremental writing**, allowing you to develop and refine
your ideas over time. The incrememntal writing method encourages revisiting and
expanding on notes, making it easier to build complex concepts gradually without
the pressure to finalise them immediately. This structure not only enhances your
ability to capture fleeting thoughts but also provides the tools to build
comprehensive knowledge networks and polished pieces of writing over time.

**For more on incremental writing, see:**  

* [Evergreen notes permit smooth incremental progress in writing (“incremental writing”)](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/Evergreen_notes_permit_smooth_incremental_progress_in_writing_(%E2%80%9Cincremental_writing%E2%80%9D))

**Zettelkasten method resources:**  

* [Introduction to the Zettelkasten Method](https://zettelkasten.de/overview/) -
A comprehensive guide to understanding the Zettelkasten method.
* [Build your own second brain with the Zettelkasten
method](https://www.atlassian.com/blog/productivity/zettelkasten-method) - How
to apply Zettelkasten in today’s digital age.
* [Detailed Guide on the Zettelkasten
System](https://theproductiveengineer.net/how-to-use-the-zettelkasten-system-a-detailed-guide/) - An in-depth explanation of the Zettelkasten method and its principles.
